We're gonna start off by following
the three W's of strategy.
Now this is something that we do
explain in the DevOps course, but
we're not gonna go too deep into it.
But we just wanna make sure that we're
all on the same page here, okay?
So what problem are we trying
to solve is our first W.
That is most importantly the biggest
question you have to answer.
If you cannot answer what
problem you are trying to solve,
you probably either don't have a problem,
or you don't know what the problem is.
So this is a very,
very important part of working in DevOps.
And sometimes, you'll have
circumstances where stuff is on fire.
Nobody wants to be asked what problem
are you trying to solve while things
are on fire.
But the reality of it is, you still have
to, and that's why it's really important.
Also with when things are on fire,
you still have to ask, well,
who are we solving this for, right?
Part of this position or
this practice is about making sure that
you're doing what's best for the company
and the company's infrastructure.
It's not about what a particular
developer may want, or
an opinion of a specific person, it's
about looking at the overall company and
saying, okay, is this valuable?
And is this going to be solved for
the person we expect it to be solved for?
And then again, the last one is,
why are we solving this problem?
So what are our problems, right?
What are our problems if
we're a brand new company?
What would those look like?
Well, we'd ask our first W, right?
Brand new company,
I just hired a whole bunch of people,
what problems are we trying to solve?
Can anyone think of any problems?
What would be first, maybe a couple
of things that you would think about?
Brand new company just had hires,
nothing's been created yet,
what would be something that you
might be concerned with first?
Sure.
>> Storage.
>> Storage, yeah.
>> Authentication.
>> Authentication, yeah.
>> Who owns what?
>> Who owns what,
permissions are back stuff like that.
Yeah, anyone else?
>> Cost.
>> Cost, yeah, all of these things, right?
And we're not even talking technicals,
we're really not talking technicals yet.
But you can't, and this is something a lot
of engineers do, even I have tried to
take a step back from, which is,
don't just fly down the problem, right?
Don't just be like,
we can technically solve it this way.
You have to take a step back and say like,
okay, what are we solving exactly here?
And so yeah,
you guys nailed a lot of this on the head.
For starters, for me, and I think that
some people might even argue this, but
I think it's true, accessing control and
permissions is gonna be the first
thing you're worried about, why?
Because it's your intellectual property,
right?
You wanna make sure, and
companies fail at this constantly.
Companies constantly fail at not
putting good policies in place,
not putting good permissions in place.
And that's why you get data breaches,
that's why you get a bunch of
other like broken stuff or things.
If you don't have good edges that
people can basically work around,
it makes it very difficult for
you to operate as a company.
So access control and permissions is huge.
It's a huge part of it.
If you are a software company then you'll
probably need to consider software life
cycles, all right?
So, how are we gonna develop software?
What tools are we gonna use?
How often are we gonna
release that software?
Who's gonna be doing what, right?
Things like that.
And then you've got
supporting infrastructure.
So, not only are we talking about
access control and permissions,
now we are talking about how
are we gonna develop our software.
Now it's like okay, well,
now we know what we want to build,
what are we gonna build it on top of?
[LAUGH] You know what I mean?
So infrastructure becomes
a big part of it.
And then finally, and I do think that this
is important, and unfortunately it is
not something that is taken seriously
more, which is developer experience, DX.
To quickly talk about DX, and
I do talk about it more in the course.
For a DevOps perspective, developer
experience is crucial to the company.
If developers aren't enjoying themselves,
you're not gonna get good product.
Why would you?
They're probably barely putting
in the effort they want to, or
they're hating the technology
they're working around.
And so it really does become part of
a problem to make sure that developers
are actually enjoying what they're
building and what they're working on.
So, now that we know what problems
we're trying to solve, right?
Who are we solving these problems for,
right?
So the first is gonna be hands down
developers, through and through.
If you're a software company,
your problems are gonna be for
developers, right?
Those are your end users.
Now the developers end users
are the people who go to the website,
but your end users are developers.
You're also got end users for
quality assurance.
So you're gonna be working with QA,
you're gonna be helping them,
supporting them with the things
that they need, right?
So they're also part of the people
that you'll be helping.
IT, right?
Yes, you'll also be working with IT.
I know some companies that purposely
separate DevOps and IT and
don't have them work together.
That's not a good idea.
At Hippo, where I work, IT and
DevOps work intrinsically together, so
that we can integrate together.
And so we have a circumstance where we
have SSO, OneLogin, all this stuff.
And we went to IT and said,
okay, well, what do you need so
you can set up your authentication and
everything?
And then we'll build the automation
to provision the users where we need.
And so we enabled it to be able
to create users, manage them,
do whatever they need to, and
then just gets automated.
So that's a problem we
don't even think about.
So having IT as a part of the people
that you're trying to solve problems for
is very important.
And then others.
This can be any other organizational unit,
whatever, there might be other parts of
your company that may need DevOps
infrastructure help, things like that.
But I think the biggest point here is
that outside of finance [LAUGH] and
maybe some other parts of the company, you
touch a lot of the parts of the company.
Your job in doing this role is to
come kinda make everyone happier,
tor try to at least the best that you can.
So, these are important people.
If these people aren't on the list for
the people that you're trying to solve
problems for, then you might not be
solving a problem valuable, yeah?
>> If your company had significant
compliance requirements,
would that be an instance where DevOps
actually does talk with finance?
>> Yes, absolutely, yeah.
DevOps would be in charge of
the compliance from the infrastructure
perspective.
So, they would need to coordinate with
finance for an understanding when are we
doing changes, when do we need to
take things into effect, right?
All that stuff.
And we do that at Hippo as well,
where I work, yeah.
We don't talk to legal very often, but
I mean, even when it comes down to like,
we need to update our TOS, or we need to
do things like that, some of those things
we personally take care of just because
of the importance and the severity.
We're an insurance company, so if we
get our TOS wrong, that's kind of bad?
[LAUGH] And yeah, yeah, it can be that.
I think the overall thing to take
away here is, you should wanna help.
Even if it seems like it might not be
something that is directly related to you,
you are a figurehead for
the company in some ways, and
a lot of people will look to you for
that help.
And then finally,
now that we know who, well,
why are we solving these
specific problems, right?
And so, this one's actually very easy.
I tried to separate it really
into two things, which is one,
you have organization needs, and then
you have organization unit needs, right?
And if you've ever heard of this or
if you've ever created an SSL
certificate before you've heard of OUs and
organizations, basically.
It follows the same common pattern of you
have a global level of infrastructure,
you have a lot of things that
you need to maintain, and
these resources are reused by
other parts of the company, right?
But then you also have specific resources
for specific parts of the company, and so
you kinda have to have like a layer here,
and
then you have a layer that you
build on top of it, right?
So the organization layer comes first,
the internal stuff, and
the organizational units,
basically, are built on top of that.
There can be more to this too,
but I think to try and
think of this as plainly as
possible is probably a good idea.